ORIGINAL:

Sur le plan de la philosophie proprement dite, de la métaphysique, la théorie
des catastrophes ne peut certes apporter aucune réponse aux grands problèmes qui
tourmentent l'homme.
Mais elle favorise une vision dialectique, héraclitéenne de l'univers, d'un
monde qui est le théatre continuel de la lutte entre ``logoi'', entre
archétypes.
C'est à une vision fondamentalement polythéiste qu'elle nous conduit: en toutes
choses, it faut savoir reconnaitre la main des Dieux.
Et c'est peut-être là aussi qu'elle trouvera les limites inéluctables de son
efficacité pratique.
Elle connaitra peut-être le même sort que la psychanalyse.
Il ne fait guere de doute que l'essentiel des découvertes de Freud en
psychologie ne soit vrai.
Et cependant, la connaissance même de ces faits n'a eu que très peu d'efficacité
sur le plan pratique (pour la cure des troubles mentaux, notamment).
De même que le héros de l'Iliade ne pouvait s'opposer à la volonté d'un Dieu,
tel Poséidon, qu'en invoquant le pouvoir d'une divinité opposée, telle Athéna,
de même nous ne pourrons restreindre l'action d'un archétype qu'en lui opposant
un archétype antagoniste, en une lutte ambigue au résultat incertain.
Les raisons mêmes qui nous permettent d'étendre nos possibitités d'action en
certain cas nous condamneront à l'impuissance en d'autres.
On pourra peut-être démontrer le caractère inéluctable de certaines
catastrophes, comme la maladie ou la mort.
La connaissance ne sera plus nécessairement une promesse de réussite, ou de
survie; elle pourra être tout aussi bien la certitude de notre échec, de notre
fin.


GOOGLE TRANSLATE:

In terms of the actual philosophy, metaphysics, theory disaster can certainly
make any response to major problems torment humans.
But it promotes a dialectic vision, Heraclitean universe, a world is the
constant theater of the struggle between `` logoi'' between archetypes.
This is a fundamentally polytheistic vision that leads us: in all things, it
must know how to recognize the hand of the Gods.
And it is perhaps also she found the inescapable limits of its practical
effectiveness.
She will know perhaps the fate of psychoanalysis.
It does little doubt that most of Freud's discoveries psychology is true.
And yet, the same knowledge of the facts had very low effectiveness in practice
(for the treatment of mental disorders, in particular).
As the hero of the Iliad could not oppose the will of God, as Poseidon, by
invoking the power of a deity opposed such Athena, the same we can not restrict
the action of an archetype than opposing it antagonist archetype, in an
ambiguous struggle with an uncertain outcome.
The same reasons that allow us to extend our action in possibitités some cases
will condemn us to impotence others.
Maybe we can demonstrate the inevitability of some disasters, such as illness or
death.
Knowledge is no longer necessarily a promise of success, or survival; it can be
equally sure of our failure, our end.


TRANSLATED:

In terms of philosophy and metaphysics, catastrophy theory certainly cannot
solve any major problem that torments man.
But it promotes a dialectic vision, a Heraclitean universe, a world that is the
constant theatre of the struggle between `` logos'', between archetypes.
It is a fundamentally polytheistic vision that leads us: in everything, we
must know how to recognize the hand of God.
It is perhaps also here that it will find the inescapable limits of its practical
use.
It will perhaps share the fate of psychoanalysis.
There is little doubt that only the essence of Freud's discoveries in psychology
are true.
And yet, knowledge of these facts has yielded very little use in practice
(for the treatment of mental disorders, in particular).
As the hero of the Iliad could not oppose the will of God, as Poseidon, by
invoking the power of an opposite deity, such as Athena, we also cannot
restrict the action of an archetype other than by opposing it with an antagonist
archetype in an ambiguous battle with an uncertain outcome.
The same reasons that allow us to extend our possibilities in action in some
cases, will condemn us to impotence others.
Maybe we can demonstrate the inevitable character of certain catastrophies,
such as dieseases and death.
Knowledge will no longer be necessarily a promise of success, or survival;
it can equally by certainty of our failure, of our end.
